in this video let us discuss how to insert a
node at the end of his circular linked list
So here the new node will be inserted at the
end
For example we have this link list 10 20 30 and
if we insert a new node 100 it will be
inserted at the end and we will get them new
circular linked list like this
10 20 30 100
Now let us see how to insert new node at
the end of a circular linked list
Here we have two cases
The first case is when the list is empty
Then the new node inserted will be the only node
and it becomes the head node and will point to
itself the second case is when the list has at least
one node
Then we need to find the last node by traversing
the list and then in insert the new node after the
last node
And it should point to the head now let us see its
implementation in Java
So this is the function which will add the new
node at the end of the list
We will pass the value to be added to the
function
Add last and it will create a new node with
that value and inserted at the end
So we have public void add last of int val
So let's see how it works
So here first we have an empty circular linked
list so head is equal to null
Now let us insert a node with Value ten
So we will call the function add last by passing ten
and let us see what happens
So Val is equal to ten
So first we need to create the new node using
new so write node new node equal to new node
So we have a new node created at address 1000
Now we need to add the data to the data
part so write new node dot data equal to val so
10 is added here
Now if the list is empty new node will be
the only node and it should become the head
So check it
And here we got head equal to null
So that means this list is currently empty
So it will be the only node
So it should become the head and it's next should
point to itself
So said new node dot next equal to new node
and make it the head
So we have head equal to new node so head
has the address 1000 it points to the node
Now we have a circular linked list with one node
let us insert another node with value 20
So first create the new node using new
So the node is created at address 2000
Like this now at the value 20 at the data
part
For that we have new node dot data equal to
val
So twenties added here now check If the list is
empty and if it is empty head will be equal
to null
But here it is not so if will fail so
go to else part
Now find the last node by traversing the list and
in normal linked list the last node will be pointing
null and in circular linked list
The last node will be pointing the head so creating
temporary variable last initially pointing to head
So write node last equal to head and use a
while loop to Travers the list till last dot next
equal to head
And when the Loop terminates last will point to the
last node here
Last equal to 1000
Now So check if last dot next not equal to head
But it is so condition will fail and it will
terminate now itself
So we got the
Last node
Now and now we have to insert the new node
after the last node
So write last dot next equal to new node
And it should point to the current head write new
node dot next equal to head
So the new node is now the last node of
the circular linked list
So now we have the circular linked list with two
nodes
now let us insert another node with value 30
So first create the new node
So the notice created at address 3000 like this now
at the value 30 at the data part Now check
If the list is empty but it is not
So go to the else part and find the last
node by traversing the list
And we have last pointing to the head and using
a while loop traversed the list till last dot next
equal to head and here last equal to 1000
So check if last dot next not
equal to head and it is equal to 2000 and
not equal to head
So the condition is okay
So move last to the next node
The last equal to 2000
Now Now chek if last dot next not equal to
head but it is equal to head so the condition
will fail and loop will terminate
So we got last node
Now Now we have to insert it after the last
node
So we have last dot next equal to new node
and it should point to the head
So write new node dot Next equal to head
So now we have the circular linked list with three
nodes and the node at 1000 is the head
So that is how we can insert nodes at the
end of a circular linked list
Now let us discuss about the time complexity
We need to traverse the entire list to find the
last node
Then new node will be inserted after this last node
So the time complexity will be order of n so thats all thanks for watching this video